
There are four behavioral investor types. We'll publish case studies over the next several months.

**No. 1:  Preserver**  
**A preserver is an investor who places a great deal of emphasis on financial security and preserving wealth, rather than taking risks to grow wealth. ** Such investors are guardians of their assets, and they take losses very seriously. Preservers are often deliberate in their decisions and sometimes have difficulty taking action with their investments, out of concern that they may make the wrong decision or take on too much risk. They instead prefer to avoid making decisions and sticking to the status quo. Preservers often obsess over short-term performance in both up and down markets (but mostly down markets), and they also tend to worry about losing what they had previously gained. This behavior is consistent with how preservers have approached their work and their personal lives--in a deliberate and cautious way.

Older investors often behave in a way that's aligned with the preserver behavioral investor type. This is natural. As we age, certainty of cash flow becomes paramount. As such, it is common to find preservers focusing their wealth on taking care of their family members and future generations, especially funding life-enhancing experiences such as education and home buying. Because the focus is on financial security, Preserver biases tend to be dominated by emotion (relating to how they feel) rather than focusing on cognitive aspects (relating to how they think). 

Wealth level may also influence preserver behavior. Although not always the case, many preservers that have gained wealth want to preserve it, and they therefore change their attitude toward risk after gaining wealth. This is especially true when an investor has been through a crisis that threatened his or her wealth (like in 2008, when the S&P 500 dropped 37% for the year). The emotional biases that can affect preservers’ ability to attain their financial goals are loss aversion, [status quo](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/840609), and [endowment biases](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/869710). Preservers can also display certain cognitive biases that relate to the same orientation, namely [anchoring](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/872407) and [mental accounting](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/832890). 

**Preservers: Upside  
**

-   Because Preservers are focused on preserving capital and avoiding losses, they tend to take a conservative approach to investing. This can be a benefit in terms of lowering volatility in a portfolio, which can lead to solid long-term compounded returns. 
-   Preservers who practice savings behaviors through mental accounting (saving for retirement, for college funding, for paying bills) can accumulate long term wealth as long as they are careful to invest in a balanced way across these various mental accounts.
-   Preservers are also less likely to engage in excessive trading activity (which has been shown to be detrimental to wealth accumulation) because they are often subject to status quo bias; they may not change their portfolios often. 

**Preservers: Downside**

-   Preserver behavioral investor types are prone to sell at the wrong time due to excessive loss aversion during severe market downturns. Some Preservers panicked during the market meltdowns of 2000-2001 and 2008-2009 and sold out of stocks after suffering losses, only to see markets rebound in the ensuing 12 to 24 months.
-   Preservers may sell their winning investments too quickly in an effort to protect gains.
-   Excessive mental accounting can lead to suboptimal portfolio construction if too much cash is held across various mental accounts. 
-   Preservers can take too little risk when investing. For example, if Preservers focus too many of their investments on cash and bonds, they may risk not reaching their financial goals; sometimes cash and bonds simply won't get you there. 
-   Preservers' biases are mainly emotional, which are hard to change or moderate, especially during market upheavals. During these times, investors should consider making risky investments as opposed to selling risky investments. This is counterintuitive, especially in the heat of the moment when markets are falling, but in almost every case. it is the right decision to step in to risky asset markets when there is "blood in the streets."

**Advice for Preservers  
**After reading the upsides and downsides, readers might conclude that Preservers are difficult to advise, because they are driven mainly by the avoidance of losses, which is an emotional response to fluctuations in the value of their portfolios. Statistics have shown that long-term investments in equities, which are clearly the most volatile investment one can own, have been handsomely rewarded. Therefore, not selling at the wrong time and rebalancing at the right time can make difference between reaching and not reaching financial goals. 

Preservers need good financial advice, and advisors should take the time to interpret behavioral signs provided to them by Preserver clients. Preservers need big-picture advice, and often they require behavioral coaching in addition to standard investing education. For example, advisors would probably be more effective in advising Preservers if they didn't dwell on details like standard deviations and Sharpe ratios, especially during times of market upheaval. Instead, Preservers need to understand how the portfolio they choose to create will deliver desired results related to emotional issues, such as meeting the needs of family members or future generations. Once Preservers feel comfortable discussing these important emotional issues with their advisors and a bond of trust is established, they will be more inclined to behave differently. After a period of time, Preservers are likely to become an advisor's best client, because they value greatly the advisor's professionalism, expertise, and objectivity in helping them make the right investment decisions.

不是我的type, 比较被动,并且并不愿意去接受风险.

**No. 2:  Follower**  
A follower investor is passive and often lacks interest in and/or has little aptitude for money or investing. Furthermore, **Follower investors typically do not have their own ideas about investing**. Rather, they may follow the lead of their friends and colleagues--or whatever general investing fad is popular--to make their investment decisions. Often their decision-making process is without regard to a long-term plan. They sometimes trick themselves into thinking they are adept or talented in the investment realm when an investment decision works out, which can lead to unwarranted risk seeking behavior. Since they don't have their own ideas about investing, Followers also may react differently when presented more than once with the same investment proposal; that is, the way something is presented (framed) can make them think and act differently. They also may regret not taking part in the latest investment fad, and may end up investing at exactly the wrong time, when valuations are the highest.

One of the key challenges of working with followers is teaching them how to refrain from overestimating their risk tolerance. An investment may appear so compelling that they jump in without considering the risks. Advisors need to be careful not to suggest too many "hot" investment ideas; followers will likely want to pursue all of them. Some followers don't like, or even fear, the task of investing, and many put off making investment decisions without professional advice; the result is that they maintain, often by default, high cash balances. Followers generally comply with professional advice when they get it, and they try to educate themselves financially. 

Followers' biases tend to be cognitive, relating well to how they think, rather than emotional, relating to how they feel. Biases of followers are [recency](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/836601), hindsight, regret aversion, [framing](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/832981), and [cognitive dissonance](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/858071). 

**Followers: Upside**

-   Followers are typically not overly obsessed with money and tend to lead their lives in a somewhat stress-free manner than others who tend to think about money on a daily basis. Since investing is not necessarily top of mind, Followers tend not to trade their accounts excessively, which is a big positive since trading too much has proven to be a wealth destructing activity. This low portfolio turnover can be a benefit in terms of lowering volatility in a portfolio generally, which can lead to better long-term compounded returns.
-   Followers may realize that they aren't good with money and therefore make a wise decision to hire an investment advisor to help them. Advisors can bring discipline to the investing process, which is much needed with Followers.

**Followers: Downside**

-   Followers lack of discipline during the investment process--assuming they do not hire or listen to an advisor. For example, undisciplined Followers tend to place a lot of emphasis on investing in the latest investment trends that have performed well recently. This can lead to investing in asset classes at the wrong time, which can lead to wealth destruction. 
-   Followers think of themselves as intelligent intelligent investors when investments go up, fooling themselves into believing they are talented when in fact a rising tide is lifting all boats. This misplaced confidence can increase risk-taking behavior, and taking on too much risk at the wrong time can lead to capital losses. 

**Advice for Followers  
**Followers often overestimate their risk tolerance. Risky trend-following behavior occurs in part because Followers don't like the task of investing, or they feel overt discomfort at the thought of buying an asset class when it is out of favor. They also may convince themselves that they "knew it all along" when an investment idea goes their way, which also increases future risk-taking behavior. 

As a result, advisors need to handle Followers with care, because they are likely to say yes to investment ideas that make sense to them regardless of whether the advice is in their best long-term interest. Advisors should guide Followers to take a hard look at behavioral tendencies that may cause them to overestimate their risk tolerance. Because Follower biases are mainly cognitive, education on the benefits of portfolio diversification and sticking to a long-term plan is usually the best course of action. Advisors should also challenge Follower clients to be introspective and provide data-backed substantiation for recommendations they receive. If advisors take the time, this steady, educational approach will generate client loyalty and adherence to long-term investment plans.

Also not my type.

**No. 3:  Independent**  
https://www.morningstar.com/articles/929265/how-to-analyze-the-independent-investor-type
**An independent investor has original ideas about investing and likes to get involved in the investment process.** Unlike followers, independents are quite engaged in the financial markets, and they may have unconventional views on investing. This "contrarian" mindset, however, may cause independents not to believe in following a long-term investment plan. With that said, many independents can and do stick to an investment plan to accomplish their financial goals. At their essence, independents are analytical, critical thinkers who make many of their decisions based on logic and their own gut instinct. They are willing to take risks and act decisively when called upon to do so. Independents can accomplish tasks when they put their minds to it; they tend to be thinkers and doers as opposed to followers and dreamers.

Unfortunately, some are prone to biases that can torpedo their ability to reach goals. For example, they may act too quickly, without learning as much as they can about their investments before making them. For example, they may mistake reading an article in a business news publication for doing original research. In their half-ready, full-on pursuit of profits, they may leave some important stones unturned that could trip them up down the road.  Independents' risk tolerance is relatively high, and so is their ability to understand risk. Independents are realistic in understanding that risky assets can, and do, go down. However, when their investments go down they don't like to admit that they were wrong, or that they made a mistake (sound familiar?). Independents often do their own research and don't feel comfortable with an investment until they have confirmed their decision with research or some form of corroboration. They are comfortable collaborating with advisors, though typically using advisors as sounding boards for their own ideas. Independents are often comfortable speaking the language of finance and understand financial terms. They aren't afraid to delve into the details of investments, including the costs and fees of making investments. 

The behavioral biases of Independents are cognitive conservatism 认知保守, availability, confirmation, representativeness, and self-attribution.

**Independents: Upside** 

-   Independents are cerebral, strong-willed thinkers who aren’t afraid to speak their minds and tell you their views on their portfolios.
-   Independents tend to do their own research and often come to client meetings with good ideas--ideas their advisors may not have considered. 
-   Given their willingness to do research, Independents may be contrarian investors, which can be a very successful strategy. As we know, many investors are herd followers and as a result, don't generate the returns they need to reach their goals.
-   Because they are analytical in nature, Independents may help themselves by finding the lowest-cost service providers.
-   Independents tend to be thinkers and doers as opposed to followers and dreamers.

**Independents: Downside**

-   Independents can act too quickly, without taking the time to learn as much as they can about their investments before making them.
-   Independents may also seek information that confirms their decisions, rather than finding information that may contradict their hypotheses.
-   Independents may irrationally cling to their self-generated ideas instead being open to new ideas that may prove they are wrong.
-   The analytical nature of Independents may actually work against them at times. For example, some independents may focus too much on taxes and not enough on selecting an appropriate investing strategy--letting the "tax tail wag the investment dog."

**Advice for Independents**  
Independents can be difficult clients to advise due to their mindsets, but they are usually grounded enough to listen to sound advice when it is presented in a way that respects their views. As we have learned, independents are firm in their belief in themselves and their decisions and can be blinded to contrary thinking. 

As with followers, education is essential to changing the behavior of Independents; their biases are predominantly cognitive. A good approach is to have regular educational discussions during client meetings. This way, the advisor doesn't point out unique or recent failures, but rather educates regularly and can incorporate concepts that he or she feels are appropriate for the client. Education on the benefits of portfolio diversification and sticking to a long-term plan is usually the best course of action. Advisors should challenge their independent clients to reflect on how they make investment decisions and provide data-backed substantiation for recommendations. Offering education in clear, unambiguous ways is an effective approach. If advisors take the time, this steady, educational approach should yield positive results.

More or less like my type

**No. 4:  Accumulator**  
The accumulator is an investor who is interested in accumulating wealth and is confident that he or she can do so. These clients have typically been successful in some business pursuit and believe in themselves enough that they will be successful investors. As such, **they often like to adjust their portfolio allocations and holdings to market conditions and may not wish to follow a structured plan.** Moreover, they want to influence decision-making or even control the decision-making process, which potentially can diminish an advisor's role. At their core, accumulators are risk takers and are firm believers that whatever path they choose is the correct one. Unlike preservers, they are in the race to win--and win big. And unlike the followers, they rely on themselves and want to be the ones steering the ship. And unlike individualists, they usually dig down to the details rather than forge a course with half the information that they need.

Unfortunately, some accumulators are susceptible to biases that can limit their investment success. For example, **they may be too confident in their abilities**. Since they are successful in business or other pursuits, why shouldn't they be successful investors? And overconfidence sometimes leads them to think they can control the outcome of the investment even though it may be full of unknown risks. Accumulators can also let their spending get out of control at times due to the "wealth effect" of having created assets that can lead to lifestyles that are more extravagant than prudent. Accumulators also may make investments based on how the opportunities they come across resonate with their personal affiliations or values.

Accumulators' risk tolerance is quite high, but when things go the wrong way (they lose money), discomfort can be very high. This discomfort may arise not only from financial loss but also from the blow to their confidence and the realization that they cannot control the outcomes of investments. Some accumulators can be quite difficult for advisors to build close relationships with, because these clients are making their own decisions rather than relying on the advice and counsel of their advisor. These clients are entrepreneurial and often the first generation to create wealth, and they are even more strong-willed and confident than Individualists. Left unadvised, accumulators often trade too much, which can be a drag on investment performance. Furthermore, they are quick decision makers but may chase higher risk investments than their friends. If successful, they enjoy the thrill of making a good investment. Some accumulators can be difficult to advise because they do not believe in basic investment principles such as diversification and asset allocation. They are often hands-on and wish to be heavily involved in the investment decision-making process. The behavioral biases of accumulators are [overconfidence](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/865832), [self-control](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/832959), affinity, [outcome](https://www.morningstar.com/articles/855244), and illusion of control.

**Accumulators: Upside**

-   Accumulators are confident in their abilities, and as such, they are willing put their investment ideas into action. As I have said before, successful investing requires the fortitude to not only have conviction about investing ideas but also the confidence to put them into action. Accumulators have the confidence to act decisively.
-   Accumulators also understand what it takes to be successful: hard work and determination to succeed. Therefore, they often take the time to understand investment opportunities and examine the details of what they invest in.
-   Accumulators understand that building wealth is about accepting risk; not all investors grasp the significance of taking risk. This is not to say that accumulators are overjoyed when things don't work out, but they typically understand that not every decision is going to work out well.

**Accumulators: Downside** 

-   The accumulator's biases relate in large measure to being too confident that things will go their way and believing that no matter what happens, they can exert some level of control over investment outcomes.
-   In reality, overconfidence usually leads to poor investment results, either because investors feel like they can out-smart the markets on a regular basis, or they trade too much.
-   Accumulators believe that investing outcomes can be controlled; this is a fallacy. Investing contains much uncertainty, and investors who believe they can control outcomes are not accepting the reality of the situation.
-   Accumulators often engage in "club deals" with their friends, which may not be well researched.
-   Accumulators also may have trouble controlling spending, may invest based on what they relate to in other parts of their lives, and be too optimistic in their investing endeavors.

**Advice for Accumulators**  
Accumulator clients are often the most difficult clients to advise, particularly those who have experienced losses. Because they like to control or at least get deeply involved in the details of investment decision-making, Accumulators tend to eschew advice that might keep their risk tolerance in check. They are emotionally charged and optimistic that their investments will do well, even if that optimism is irrational. Some Accumulators need to be monitored for excess spending which, when out of control, can inhibit performance of a long-term portfolio. Other accumulators make investments that align with their world view but may not be the best investments for the long term.

For advisors, a reasonable approach to dealing with these clients is to take a leadership role in the situation. If the advisor lets the accumulator client dictate all the terms of the advisory engagement, they will always be at the mercy of the client's decision-making process, which at times can be emotionally driven, and the result will likely be an unhappy client and an unhappy advisor. Advisors to accumulators need to also demonstrate the impact financial decisions have on family members, lifestyle, or legacy. If these advisors can demonstrate to the client that they have the ability help the client make sound long-term decisions, they will likely see their accumulator clients fall into step and be better clients who are easier to advise.